# Virtual Counselor: College preference list recommender system for CAP Round of Engineering
The invention aims to develop a “Virtual Counselor” System that helps students create a college selection preference list for engineering CAP rounds of MHT-CET. By utilizing recommender system techniques, the system provides personalized recommendations based on individual preferences and requirements. It incorporates collaborative filtering and recommendation algorithms to analyze colleges. The system continuously trains itself through Machine Learning Algorithm based on the dataset, and user feedback in order to generate the college preference list. The invention aims to reduce the stress of students for the college decision-making process by empowering students to make well-informed choices. Therefore we aim to automate this process through Machine Learning. The proposed system asks the user to provide inputs such as percentile, course and category. Using previous year cutoff data of colleges the system uses its predictive capability to generate a college preference list for the engineering aspirants. In essence, Virtual Counselor is an efficient and reliable solution that provides students with intelligent, data-driven college recommendations.
# Dataset
The datset used for this project contains the data of year 2022 about the cutoff of the colleges present in Maharashtra state (Majorly near Pune City). This dataset is not taken from any open source and is completely prepared by me and my team. We are still working on the dataset to improve the accuracy of the model.
